## Basic Usage

 - load up your cports module so that cports can see its own generated
   module files. 
   - the best thing to do is to do a *module initadd dot cports* so
     everytime you login/open a new shell you will have the cports
     environment available to you.
 - To install packages you cd into the
   cports/packages/PACKAGENAME/VERSION that you want, then just type
   *make install*
 - If you want to use a different compiler e.g. do *make install
   COMPILERS=intel* this assumes that you have the intel compilers in
   your path.

### Available COMPILERS

By default COMPILERS=gnu which means it defaults to the system gnu c
compilers (at least version 4 where gfortran is available). This all
assumes that the compilers are already in your path.

#### The default compilers

 - COMPILERS=intel - system version of intel compilers
 - COMPILERS=pathscale - system version of pathscale compilers
 - COMPILERS=pgi - system version of portland compilers
 - COMPILERS=open64 - system version of open64 compilers

#### Accessing different versions of gnu compilers

For example if you want to vary between the gnu compiler versions
4.1.2, 4.4.0, 4.5.0 etc... you will first need to install the
compilers from the cports system. Then manually load up the
gcc/VERSION compiler with the module utility. To then compile things
you will need to set the COMPILERS variable to hint cports to create
the correct installation directory structures and modulefiles.

Support variables currently available (subject to changes)

  - COMPILERS=open644.2.3
  - COMPILERS=gnu4.5.0
  - COMPILERS=gnu4.4.4
  - COMPILERS=gnu4.4.0

Setting the COMPILERS variable tags things correctly in the
installations. More compilers can be added by editting gnu.local.mk
This method of tagging things isn't straightforward to understand but
it at least provides a way of systematically creating installations.

If there is a mismatch of version numbers the system will fail early.

#### Using arguments with the makefiles

make can be run with arguments like 

	make COMPILERS=intel10.1 install

if you don't have icc for intel10.1, then make will error straight 
away Note that the compiler version number _should_ be included.

Typing something like

	make COMPILERS=intel build

can lead to cports _mistakenly_ passing the compiler check even
if (in this case) you don't have icc.
